Okay.
So at the end of the previous lesson, we saw that whenever we clicked the clear filters button in our
job filter sidebar component, we were successfully updating the View Store State.
However, we were not clearing the checkboxes themselves.
So as a reminder, we are actually rendering those checkboxes in these children components.
The Job Filter Sidebar CheckBox Group.
So let's open up that component and remind ourselves how it works.
So right here I'm going to open up job filters, sidebar, checkbox, group, dot view.
All right.
So as a reminder, we pass any prop called Unique Values, which is either a set of strings or an array
of strings.
And then we iterate over that right here with a V4 directive.
And here's where we actually render the checkbox.
So will notice here that the checkbox is use the V model directive to connect to selected values.
And if I scroll down, you'll see right here that selected values is basically local component state.
We are using that ref function from view to create a reactive object and it starts out with an empty
array.
And so the way this works is whenever the user selects a value, we run this logic right here.
And what we do is we send the proper mutation to the View Store and we provide the current array being
stored in our selected values.
Reactive object.
So in other terms, we are using local state.
Here we are keeping track of the actual selected checkboxes locally in this component.
And then whenever the user interacts with the checkbox, we take that local component, state represented
by selected values and we send it off to view X, right?
And we talked earlier about why this isn't a perfect idea.
Basically, the problem here is that we have duplicate information being stored in two different places.
We have local component state, and we also have that exact same copy of data shipped off to view so
it can update its own property such as a selected job types or selected agrees with the local components
data so that it can perform its filter logic.
So of course what is happening is whenever we update our view store, this local component state represented
by these selected values, reactive object that has no clue that it needs to update.
So it's still stores its original array of strings.
And just because the View Store replaces its property does not mean that our local component state changes,
right?
That is why our checkboxes are not disappearing off the screen.
So what we can do here as a very simple solution is we can try to listen to The View Store and we could
say, Hey, View Store, whenever you're running that mutation we told you to run, which is clear user
job filter selections.
What we can do is tell this component to update its local state.
We can tell it to focus on its selected values, reactive object and change its internal value to be
an empty array.
And once that local state inside this component update, the component itself will re render.
And because it no longer has any selected values, it should automatically remove the checkboxes.
All right, so how are we going to make that a reality?
Well, we have access to our view store right here.
We use the use store function right here.
And on that store, we have a new method which we have not talked about so far throughout the course.
And that method is called subscribe.
All right, so why is this method called subscribe?
Well, if you think about something like a magazine subscription, right?
Every time a magazine publishes a new issue, a subscriber receives that issue to their mailbox.
So the word subscribe when it comes to technology is usually reserved for situations like this where
we want something to listen to an event elsewhere, and whenever that event elsewhere occurs, we also
want to take action here.
And that's precisely what we want to do.
We want to listen to what's going on in our view store.
We want to subscribe.
We want to listen in.
We want to say we're interested in every single thing that's going on there.
And what the view will do is every time it commits a mutation, it will emit a message in the same way
that a magazine publisher emits a actual issue of their magazine.
And then we can react to that emission right here.
So basically what the subscribe method accepts is a function inline.
So going to define an arrow function.
And inside the arrow function, the first argument is going to be mutation.
And what this represents is an object representing the mutation that is running.
So every single time we commit a mutation, every single time, in other words, we change.
If you look at our state, we're going to be able to run the function right here automatically because
we provided it to subscribe.
And the logic here that we want to do, of course, is if our mutation is specifically the one that
we implemented to clear the arrays and that mutation is called clear use our job filter selections if
and only if it is that mutation.
We want to take selected values right here and set it back to be an empty array.
We don't want to do this logic on every mutation, but only a specific mutation.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to import that mutation name, which is of course available
as a constant.
So right here.
How about right here?
I'm going to import.
The name in it is called a clear user job filter selections and it is coming from our source directory,
the store directory and then the constants file.
This is the exact same one, by the way, that we are registering right here.
And committing to the store.
So this component, when the user clicks on the action button, will commit that mutation.
And what we want to do here in every single checkbox group component is subscribe to that mutation means
meaning.
Pay attention to when that mutation happens and then run our own logic.
So right here, what I'm going to do is begin it with an if statement, because the first thing I want
to do is make sure I only target the one mutation that I care about.
So on this mutation object that we get passed in, we're going to have a property called type and that
is going to give us the name of the actual mutation that is currently running.
Remember the function we passed to subscribe here will run every single time a mutation runs.
We don't want the logic here to be run every time.
We only want it to be run whenever the mutation has a given type.
And that, of course, is the name of the mutation.
So what I'm going to do here is use my strict equality comparison to check whether this string representing
the name of the mutation is equal to the actual mutation.
Name that I care about what is clear user job filter selection.
So in other terms, what I'm doing here is I'm saying whenever the bookstore is updating its state as
a result of being told to commit this mutation, what do I want to do in this component?
So what I want to do, of course, is I want to take my selected values reactive object.
And of course, I want to set it to be an empty array again.
Remember, when it comes to reactive objects in view, we can't just simply set this to a new value.
We have to access its value property and set that to the new value we wanted to have.
So this should be an empty array.
All right.
So one more time to walk through the flow.
We're going to begin with job builder sidebar.
The user is going to click on the action button to trigger this clear user job filter selections, a
function to run that's going to be this function down below.
This function is going to commit a mutation to the View Store.
In other words, it's going to tell the View Store that something needs to change.
Please run this logic.
Here we are using a new method called Subscribe, which is basically a listener that is keeping track
of every mutation that is ever running within the bookstore.
So whenever the bookstore runs any kind of mutation, viewers are going to run this logic.
And so we're saying here is, if specifically the mutation that you're currently running is clear user
job filter selections, we know that the user has clicked the clear job filters button, which means
in this local component state, we want to update the value of the selected values reactive object from
storing the array of strings representing the user selections to then be an empty array.
Why do we want to do this?
Because we're going to update the local state here, which will force this thing to re render.
And because we are connecting that selected values reactive object to v model view will remove the checks
from the checked checkboxes.
We are making this component update its local state based on changes to global state in the U.S., which
we are paying attention to by subscribing to changes in the story, listening or paying attention to
every mutation that runs right.
So with that said, we can transition to our browser.
There we go.
And as always, we can begin by selecting some options here.
So bachelors part time view tube, you and me.
Let's add a couple more here.
Full time masters.
We can see now we have five jobs matched.
There we go.
Maybe ten is a better number.
All right.
So I'm going to bring up my view dev tools.
And we can we can see once again in view that we have these three properties in the view store updated
to be the property.
Right.
So when I click Clear Filters, we're going to run that mutation.
That mutation is going to change the state.
And now each checkbox group component, there are three of them.
Right, this one right here, this one right here and this one right here.
Each one of them is instantiated and each one of them in the set up method has that subscribe logic.
It's going to match the mutation, it's going to clear the local selected values array, and that in
turn will update these checkboxes instantaneously.
So here I go in 3 to 1.
There we go.
So you saw this change right here.
And now all of our checkboxes are clear here as well.
That's exactly what we want.
So one more time.
Let me do it a couple times here of YouTube, full time pursuing degree.
But it's not like there are any jobs that fit that criteria.
There we go.
There's two clear filters and now we are back to all these jobs and 100 jobs matched.
It doesn't matter whether we have one, it doesn't matter whether we have two.
Either approach will clear everything because we're going to simply go to every single individual component,
change its local state in response to change in global state.
That is what this ascribe method exists for.
It is so they can pay attention to every change in the same way that when you subscribe to a magazine,
you pay attention to every issue at the publisher sends out.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.